 Hi everyone, Bob the Builder here, the internet's busiest music nerd, and it's time for a review of this new little Sims project. No thank you. Lear Assist extraordinaire from the UK, little Sims, here she is back new record. Coming through about a year after the release of her immense sometimes I might be introvert, which is an amazing profound rap album loaded with some of the most mind-blowing personal and moving songs in the genre that year. I think this will go down as one of the best records of the 2020s. That is for sure and we're not even halfway into the decade yet. Now I think most general music fans would go into the next Sims record. The same way they would any album following a creative high point in a band or artist's career. How are they gonna top the last album? Is it gonna be bigger, better in some way? But to assume that would be to ignore the pattern that Sims has been on for her past several records. Because if you look at her catalog progression so far, she kind of alternates between these records that are very direct, more loosely connected collections of tracks, and then other albums that are just like kind of shooting for the stars conceptually. So one way to look at the lead up to this new album would be to go from the debut to the very grimy and amazing grey area to here. Because no thank you isn't as large or grand or thematic as Simby and it's not trying to be. And yet also it feels like she's taken the experiences from that album, some of the instrumental concepts and ideas, the maturity that she gained on that LP, and is carrying it over into this new release here. So while Sims may have shifted into a lower gear for this record, that doesn't mean that we're being subjected to some kind of like severely lower quality. No thank you overall I would just say is a different kind of listening experience. One that I know Sims can pretty confidently execute as she's done in the past, because again she can wrap her ass off, she can really drill down into a topic, and she can pull a cohesive batch of tracks together too. The concept album is a tough beast to tame. I imagine it takes a lot of resources and energy too. I don't think Sims can afford to even mentally make one Simby after another. So in a way no thank you feels like a project to hold us over, to enjoy, to listen to, in the meantime before her greater ambitions get a hold of her creative process once again. Now mind you, even though the songs and ideas on No Thank You are more bite-sized in terms of portions, this is still a pretty dense listen at 50 minutes of runtime. And I wouldn't call it a light-hearted listen either. There are some bops in the mix, but some of the themes addressed on this record are heavy. The opening track Angel, for example, sees Sims processing her place in her career, the music industry at large, wanting to maintain her personal and artistic independence. As she avoids agreements, business dealings, and traditional rules, looking to box her in, limit her capacity, the track has a chill vibe, thoughtful bars, and beautiful vocal traps. Plus the top-notch flows and word choices that we've come to expect from Sims up until this point. It's also pretty interesting that a lot of the group and choral vocals on this LP, as they are singing, the lyrics they deliver have often a religious or spiritual angle to them. The only thing that doesn't hit about this track in my opinion is the beat which I thought ran a little thin and kind of stiff. But there are similar themes of control and autonomy on these songs Silhouette, where Sims voices once again distaste and unhappiness with being minimized in her own music, her creative process, her output, made to feel not human, but like a representation of a human or a human shape, a Silhouette. We get creative synth work on this track, harder drums, also some choral passages that take up the entire second half of the track that are amazing and gorgeous. The topical focus and instrumental ambition on this particular song leads me to wonder if it is some kind of sometimes that might be introvert leftover or afterthought, which if so, it still stands on its own as a quality song. I feel much the same way about the instrumental arrangements and messaging on the song X, the themes and low-key melancholy vocal chops on the song Hard on Fire 2. Many of the tracks on this thing feel like they could have almost been added to a deluxe edition of Cindy, either that or for another record she is just really not done exploring these ideas. Because Sims did spend a fair amount of time on that album, defining her own path, ethos, message, and independence. And I guess if she still has things to say about it, it makes sense. Because there are so many layers to the problems that artists experience in the music industry that they could take forever to impact. As Sims isn't just any random artist getting the short end of the stick in the industry, because the way she's treated ties pretty deeply into her race, her womanhood, yet it's those very perspectives that make her music so unique, profitable, and successful. But yeah, a lot of these feelings of getting ripped off and disrespected and misunderstood and taken advantage of continue on to the song No Mercy as well or No Mercy, which obviously is a reference to the title No Thank You, but also an expression of Sims showing No Mercy to those who she feels are working against her best interest. As she specifically focuses on what she sees as things that were trapping her in her career, three course meals and gifts, the rat race, being the only one who wasn't being paid, as well as contracts that were too long. She paints her frustration with standout lines about paying for somebody else's ballman, and you've been tanning in the sun now I'm a throw shade. The track doesn't feature one of my favorite beats on here outside of some of the orchestral hits that pop in here and there. But the Fluttering Cord loops and groove kind of provide a bit of an upbeat change of pace, which is also a vibe I get off of the song Gorilla, where the hilarious Whitten Braggadocia come through even harder. We have some elven-sized horn hits on this cut as well as some big, fat, heavy upright bass loops. The drums are super chunky and punchy as well. This is like hip hop in its purest form. Totally uncut, totally unadulterated. The bars, the word play, muah, muah, muah. She's just spitting fire right up until the song's final moments where she says, say he never called another woman me a more so I opened up the way and now he adore. It's a door. But yeah, banger, amazing track. One of Sim's hardest hitting and most fun, handley. But to get serious for a moment, this record also features the song Broken. The longest track on the LP by quite a bit, and when you get into the theme of the song, it's not hard to see why. As Sim's does the best that she can in a single track to unpack all these layers having to do with stress and mental health, specifically from the standpoint of a black woman, black people, black families, immigrants, yeah, in the mantra refrain on the track, pretty much sums it up. Feel your broken and you don't exist, meaning that you're living in a society where you're just not seen or witnessed in any way whatsoever if you're not, how do you even begin to get help? When you feel you're broken and you cannot fix it, because mental health struggles often cannot be fixed alone. But man, Sim's does an amazing job, a mind-blowing job in fact of just like kind of going through all of these problems and all the angles with mental health issues like in a very clear and lucid linear fashion, like not only is it's so fantastically written from a rap standpoint because the flows are there, the rhymes are there, but just in terms of a general point being made, the clarity of what she's trying to get across is so great. But yeah, this is easily one of the most powerful cuts in her entire catalog so far. But from here I would say I think the ending of this project falls apart a little bit. The brief sideways, I don't think, brings as much to the table as some of the heftier cuts here, while the auto-tune vocal leads and very mushy ill-defined chords on who even cares just are really not that appealing, not too much song structure to this track as well. I think it really could have been left on the cutting room floor. Meanwhile, the closing track control does have quite a bit of potential in its lyrics that explore trauma. It's very regal, but jazzy chord progressions as well as its raw ambient noise soaked vocal harmonies in the background. But there is something about the presentation of the track that feels maybe a bit more demo-ish in comparison with everything else here. So in terms of like cleanliness and detail and instrumental ambition, there is a bit of a wide gap between this cut and many other songs on the album. So yeah, unfortunately the record ends off much much much weaker than it starts. But still, I think no thank you is a pretty good project overall from Sims. Even if in some respects, it does feel like a sometimes I might be introvert epilogue. But that album is so great and so amazing. Why wouldn't you want to listen to tracks that either are left over from it or are still exploring at least some of the same vibes and themes, not just lyrically, but instrumentally and musically too. So I'm feeling a strong 7 to a light 8 on this one. Transition, have you given this album a listen to jaluvit? Did you hate it? What would you rate it? You're the best or the best? What should I review next? Hit the like if you like. Please subscribe and please don't cry. Hit the bell as well. Over here next in my head is another video you can check out. Hit that up or the link to subscribe to the channel. Anthony Fantano. Little Sims. But forever.